So canceling bookings would be a thing.
So that if I click the trash bin here we actually get rid of that if we have a look at the bookings
page here.
Dead button here for that option trigger his on canceled booking and it gives us the idea of the booking.
I want to cancel so we already got a lot we need now we need to basically pass that I.D. which of course
should be named booking a year to our booking service to that canceled booking method we already set
up there.
We are injecting the booking service.
So let's simply call this booking service cancel booking and forward that booking idea here.
That's all we need to do here in the booking service.
We got no logic in place for a client for canceling a booking though.
But that should be fairly easy to add.
We'll again have to manipulate our list of bookings and in this case will not change an existing one
like we did with updating a place but we'll delete a booking instead.
But this is still fairly simple.
I will copy the code from there where I get all my bookings and then I take just the latest snapshot.
I add a delay here to simulate a network request and then I get my bookings but of course I'll now not
com cat a new booking.
Instead we can use the filter method here to filter our array of bookings down to a smaller array of
bookings and we'll have a look at all my bookings in here and you can named as argument however you
want of course.
And I will compare the idea of the booking I'm currently looking at in this array of bookings and if
it's not equal to the booking idea I'm getting as an argument.
So to this booking idea then I will return true here.
This is why I'm checking for not equality because then this is a booking I want to keep because it's
not the booking for which we pass the I.D. to cancel it.
If the idea of the booking I'm looking at for the items in the bookings array here.
If that is equal to the booking idea I'm getting here though then this is the booking I want to cancel
and they offer this will return false here.
It will not be included in the new bookings array right.
It's filtered out.
This should be all we need to do.
This should allow us to cancel our bookings.
So let's save that and let's wait for the app to reload.
And of course I have no bookings so we should probably also display a little text here.
We can do that.
But first of all let's quickly book and you place your with some data click book and let's go to our
bookings.
Let's click cancel and nothing happens.
Did this where it could probably didn't double otherwise it should update here.
Because in the bookings page we do have a subscription right.
So we should get updated bookings for sure.
Well we never subscribe to our observable.
We call cancel booking but cancel booking returns does observable change here.
So of course we should subscribe.
So let's add subscribe here and now just by adding this it would work because an observable to which
you don't subscribe will never execute.
Hence if I am just subscribed like this it should work.
Let me quickly demonstrate this by booking that place again here with some dummy data.
Here we go.
Let's go back here to all the bookings and now you will see this works and it disappears after a second.
But again it would be nice to show a little spinner of course and we can use the same approach we used
before the loading controller
injected from ionic angular into the bookings page.
And then here in on canceled booking I will call this loading controller.
Create with a message of canceling
and then block here.
I get my loading element as an argument I can then call loading element present here to show it.
Then I start to cancel process and then the function passed to subscribe which is executed once this
is done.
So once this delay of one second passed I can call loading element dismiss and now we should have a
nicer flow here.
If we wait for that to reload and I just cover my place says I booked that place with some data that
now let's go to our bookings.
And if I now delete this we got our canceled button meter as well and now it's gone.
So this is a nicer flow and this is now to flow for canceling bookings.
Now let's do some cleanup and optimization work.